Chapter 1:

Biophysical limits are becoming binding constraints on mature economies, 
and the data needed for policy-makers to understand and manage this reality are not universally available. 
In this chapter, we discuss the problems that arise from relying solely 
on the Solow growth model to describe an economy that is deeply interconnected to the biosphere. 
We point out that mainstream economists forecast low growth rates for mature economies for 
the foreseeable future because traditional drivers of economic growth 
(growth rates of capital and labor productivity) have plateaued. 
The guiding premise of this book is that stalled economic growth can  
be the natural outcome of mature economies reaching a limit of the supply 
of energy and other forms of natural capital. 
Thus, mainstream policy recommendations based on a Solow growth model 
that would spur consumption and investment to invigorate economic growth 
may actually backfire: 
expansion of the stock of capital in the economy can contribute to the 
slowdown of economic growth. 
The chapter ends with a call for acknowledging the \emph{biophysical} 
constraints of the economy and adjusting national accounting accordingly. 



Chapter 4:

In this chapter, we develop equations, assisted by the First Law of Thermodynamics, 
that describe the flow of direct energy through economies. 
The equations are applied to example economies with increasing levels of disaggregation. 
Finally, the energy flows for our running example, the US auto industry, are discussed. 



Chapter 5: 

This chapter develops equations that describe 
the accumulation and flow of embodied energy through economies. 
We noted that waste heat from a sector is additive to the energy 
embodied within products of a sector, 
thereby providing the mechanism for accumulating 
embodied energy along the manufacturing supply chain. 
The embodied energy accounting equations were applied to example economies~A--C. 
Finally, we discussed embodied energy in the context of our running example, 
the US auto industry. 
We found that there are a few historical estimates of energy embodied within automobiles. 



Chapter 7:

In this chapter, we derive algebraic equations 
that describe the energy intensity 
(in units of J/\$) of products of economic sectors. 
The algebraic equations are applied to Examples~A--C 
to derive a matrix equation % chktex 8 for a vector of energy intensities for the entire economy. 
We review several studies of energy intensity in the literature 
and note a wide range of results from one study to the next. 
The estimates of energy intensity also vary with time. 
The range of energy intensities for the auto sector 
is $0.83 \times 10^{4}$ kJ/\$ to $11.6 \times 10^{4}$ kJ/\$. 