This book uses the metaphor ``The economy is society's metabolism'' 
as a springboard to develop a rigorous theoretical framework 
for a better system of national accounts, 
one that goes \emph{Beyond GDP} and 
one that is relevant to the age of resource depletion.
We are entering a new era in which 
biophysical limits related to natural resource extraction rates and
the biosphere's waste assimilation capacity
are becoming binding constraints on mature economies.
Unfortunately, the data needed for policy-makers to understand and manage 
economic growth in the new era are not universally available. 
We need a new way to understand our economy, 
and we suggest that 
detailed information about materials, energy, embodied energy, and energy intensity 
be routinely gathered, analyzed, and disseminated from a centralized location
to provide markets and policymakers with a more-comprehensive understanding 
of the biophysical economy.
However, a firm theoretical foundation is needed before proceeding
along this new path, 
and this book provides just such a foundation.

After arguing that both manufactured capital stock is
an important driver of material and energy demands imposed upon the biopshere, 
a new accounting framework is derived from the laws of thermodynamics
that correctly reflects the reality that material and embodied energy 
acccumulate within the capital stock of economic sectors.
The framework developed herein extends the energy input-output (EI-O)
techniques first developed by Bullard, Herendeen, and others 
to estimate energy intensity of economic products.

Implications from the new framework are discussed, including 
the value of economic metrics for policy-making,
the need for physically-based rather than product-based EI-O formulations, 
a re-assessement of the concept of economic ``growth,'' and
recycling, reuse, and dematerialization.
The framework developed herein also provides an opportunity
to assess an array of definitions for Daly's ``steady-state economy''
relative to the ideal of a sustainable economy.

The book ends with a list of next steps that could be taken including
(1) national accounting agencies worldwide should develop and maintain 
balance sheets of both nautral and manufactured capital 
in addition to national income statements,
(2) all stocks and inter-sector flows should be provided 
in physical as well as financial units,
(3) in the US, the Bureau for Economic Analysis (BEA) should restart detailed 
Capital, Labor, Energy, Material, and Services (KLEMS)
reporting,
(4) national accounting agencies should routinely estimate 
the energy intensity of economic products, and 
(5) all of the above should be estimated and disseminated on an annual basis.