Chapter 1:

We are entering a new era in which 
biophysical limits related to natural resource extraction rates and
the biosphere's waste assimilation capacity
are becoming binding constraints on mature economies.
Unfortunately, the data needed for policy-makers to understand and manage 
economic growth in the new era are not universally available. 
In this chapter, we discuss the problems that arise from relying solely 
on the Solow growth model to describe an economy that is,
in reality, deeply interconnected with the biosphere. 
We point out that mainstream economists forecast low growth rates 
for mature economies for the foreseeable future, 
because traditional drivers of economic growth 
(growth rates of capital and labor productivity) have plateaued. 
Unfortunately, mainstream policy recommendations to reinvigorate growth,
based on the Solow growth model, 
ignore three critical realities:
the economy is tightly coupled to the biosphere, 
there exist real and binding physical and technological limits 
to the rate at which materials and energy can be extracted from the biosphere, and
today’s emplacement of manufactured capital locks in tomorrow’s 
material and energy demands from the biosphere.
As such, mainstream policy recommendations are likely to fail in the long run:
today's expansion of the stock of capital in the economy 
in the hopes of enhancing consumption can contribute to the 
slowdown of economic growth by bringing us ever-closer to biophysical limits.
The chapter ends by noting that we need a new way to understand our economy, 
and we suggest that 
detailed information about materials, energy, embodied energy, and energy intensity 
be routinely gathered and analyzed and disseminated from a centralized location
to provide markets and policymakers with more-complete knowledge 
of the biophysical economy.
However, a firm theoretical underpinning is needed before proceeding
along this new path, 
and the remainder of this book provides a rigorous theoretical framework 
for a better system of national accounts, one that goes beyond GDP 
and one that is relevant to the age of resource depletion.




Chapter 2:

Mainstream economic models, 
which typically exclude physical transactions
between the economy and the biosphere, 
are incomplete: 
wastes, pollution, natural resource extraction, and 
use of ecosystem services are not included. 
When economic policy is informed by these incomplete models,
unexpected negative outcomes can arise.
In this chapter, we suggest
that the reason for the incompleteness of mainstream economic models is 
that we incorrectly understand the economy 
through an outdated metaphor: the economy is a machine.
We describe three eras of thinking about the economy,
its relationship to the biosphere, and the
metaphors that emerged during each era. 
We argue that as the world enters the age
of resource depletion, it is time for a new metaphor:
the economy is society's \emph{metabolism}.
We describe the metabolic processes 
of anabolism, catabolism, and autophagy 
and draw analogies
to key economic processes: 
capital formation, energy production, and recycling. 
Based on the machine metaphor, today's economic policies are unable
to address important issues such as appropriate levels and types of capital formation, 
efficient energy production, wise use of recycling, and 
the appropriate scale of the economy relative to the biosphere. 
The problem is compounded by today's national accounting,
which fails to count many beneficial activities in GDP, 
simply because because GDP measures only what is produced. 
Thus, wise and beneficial long-term decisions that would that preserve or enhance
natural capital (such as refraining from clearcutting forests)
might, ultimately, reduce GDP.
We conclude that navigating through the age of resource depletion
will require expanded national accounting that captures
robust, annual data on the entire portfolio of a nation's wealth 
(manufactured and natural capital) in addition to 
data on national income (GDP).
The chapter ends with a description of the structure of the rest of the book. 




Chapter 3:

The first step in understanding the economic metabolism 
is to account for the flow of materials through the economy 
and the exchange of materials with the biosphere.
In this chapter, we develop a framework 
for accounting material flows and accumulation
within economies.
We begin by considering accounting in everyday life
and continue with concepts from thermodynamics, 
such as system boundaries, control volumes, and
the First Law of Thermodynamics,
to develop a rigorous accounting framework.
The framework is applied first to a one-sector then 
two-sector model of the economy
as we construct a general framework for material
accounting.
We then apply the framework to the real-world
example of the US auto industry.




Chapter 4:

Accounting for direct energy as it flows through an economy is essential 
for developing a dynamic picture of its metabolism.
In this chapter, we apply the First Law of Thermodynamics
to sectors of the economy to describe flows of direct energy
from the biosphere, through economies, and ultimately back to the biosphere as waste heat. 
Direct energy accounting equations are developed through a series 
of example economies with increasing levels of disaggregation. 
Finally, direct energy flows for the example of the US auto industry are discussed. 




Chapter 5: 

In addition to materials and direct energy, 
accounting for embodied energy is essential to understand 
how the biophysical economy operates, because it provides an indication of the 
distribution of intra-economy energy demand created by consumption of goods and services.
Furthermore, the energy embodied in manufactured capital
provides, to first approximation, an estimate of the energy required to replace
depreciated capital.
This chapter begins by developing, for the first time in the literature,
a rigorous, thermodynamically-based definition of embodied energy.
We then show that energy embodied in the products of an economic sector 
is the sum of all direct energy 
consumed along the supply chain, 
including all upstream processing stages.
We note that waste heat from a sector is additive to the energy 
embodied within products of a sector, 
thereby providing the mechanism for accumulating 
embodied energy along the manufacturing supply chain. 
Equations that describe 
the accumulation and flow of embodied energy through economies are developed
through a series of increasingly-disaggregated model economies. 
Finally, we discuss embodied energy in the context of our running example, 
the US auto industry. 
We find that there are very few estimates in the literature
of energy embodied within automobiles.




Chapter 6:

To quantify financial activites and interdependencies within an economy,
economists account for flows of economic value among sectors of the economy. 
In this chapter, we utilize the prevailing subjective theory of value
to develop a framework for value accounting that is consistent with the 
materials, energy, and embodied energy accounting frameworks
presented in prior chapters.
We note that important and essential material exchanges between the economy and the biosphere
(including energy extraction from the biosphere and waste assimilation by the biosphere)
take place outside of the market, and, as such, they are not included in
national accounts and have no economic value.
We point to the UN System of Environmental Economic Accounts (SEEA)
or the US Integrated Enviornmental Economic System of Accounts (IEESA) as the way forward
to including some of these essential extra-market transactions in national accounting.
Similar to previous chapters, 
a series of increasingly-disaggregated model economies is used
to develop our value accounting framework.
Value flows for the US auto industry are presented,
and concerns are raised about recent changes to include intangible assets,
such as software and intellectual property, as capital stock.




Chapter 7:

Energy intensity, 
the ratio of total energy consumed during the manufacture of a product
to the economic value of that product expressed in units of J/\$, 
is an inherently useful metric that describes the accumulation 
of energy consumption and economic value along
the pathways traveled by products through an economy.
It is a key piece of information that can help consumers and firms alike 
make wise consumption and investment decisions in the age of resource depletion.
The Energy Input-Output (EI-O) method, developed by
Bullard, Herendeen, and others as an extension to Leontief's groundbreaking work,
has been used historically to develop 
static estimates of the energy intensity of products within economy.
Unfortunately, energy intensity is not routinely estimated, and, if it is, 
it erroneously does not account for the energy embodied 
in our accumulating stock of manufactured capital.
In this chapter, we extend the EI-O method 
to develop a mathematical technique to estimate 
energy intensity in a dynamic economy, 
one that can accumulate manufactured capital in its sectors.
As in previous chapters, 
the equations are developed by example in increasingly-disaggregated model economies.
We review several studies of energy intensity of the US auto industry in the literature 
and note a wide range of results from one study to the next.
The estimates of energy intensity also vary with time. 
The range of energy intensities for the auto sector 
is $0.83 \times 10^{4}$ kJ/\$ to $11.6 \times 10^{4}$ kJ/\$. 




Chapter 8:

The metabolism metaphor and the material, energy, and economic value accounting framework 
presented in the book has a number of implications for 
the manner in which we understand our economies.
In this chapter, we discuss several of these implications. 
The first set of implications is for the Energy Input-Output method itself. 
We recommend a physical accounting framework that fully accounts 
for capital stock and energy input from society (final consumption) to the economy. 
We then discuss implications for economic ``development,'' 
namely that economic growth could be considered a ``fully coupled'' problem: 
understanding it requires breadth of knowledge and appreciation 
for interactions among many important and complementary factors, 
including financial capital, manufactured capital and associated embodied energy, 
natural capital, direct energy, and societal inputs. 
Each, alone, is necessary, but not sufficient, for economic development. 
We discuss implications for recycling and reuse of materials 
and for the concept of dematerialization. 
Finally, we view the concept of a steady-state economy 
through the lens of our framework. 
We find that there are many potential definitions of a steady-state economy, 
none of which are fully satisfying when compared against the ideal of sustainability. 




Chapter 9:

The dynamic accounting framework presented in previous chapters
naturally gives rise to a set of next steps necessary
to expand systems of national accounts 
to encompass material and energy flows within our economies 
and exchanges with the biosphere.
This final chapter briefly summarizes the book and highlights 
the need for additional data on both inter-sector flows and accumulation 
of manufactured capital and its embodied energy. 
We continue with a call to action, 
a list of several tasks that should be undertaken to modify national accounting. 
Finally, we note that moving forward on these issues will be politically difficult, 
but necessary, to adapt to the age of resource depletion.